-*- mode: Text -*-

			Cygwin Support Files for Flick

		     The Flux Project, University of Utah
			 http://www.cs.utah.edu/flux/
				+1-801-585-3271

				 November 1999


This directory contains files that are not part of Flick, but which you may
need in order to compile and use Flick in a Cygwin environment.

The Cygwin library implements a UNIX-like interface for Windows 95 and Windows
NT.  The Cygwin toolset is a suite of GNU tools ported to run with the Cygwin
library.  The Cygwin library and toolset are available from Cygnus Solutions
via the World Wide Web at <http://sourceware.cygnus.com/cygwin/>.

CONTENTS ----------------------------------------------------------------------

In this directory you will find:

	README		The file you are reading now.

	include		This directory contains C system header files that are
			required in order to build Flick.  Cygwin does not
			contain these files by default.

	libnsl		This directory contains a minimal `libnsl' library
			which contains the standard set of RPC and XDR
			functions.  While many systems provide these functions
			in `libc', Cygwin does not.

	portmap		This directory contains an enhanced portmapper daemon.
			A portmapper is required in order for one to run ONC
			RPC (Sun RPC)-based servers on a Windows host.

	tcp_wrappers	This directory contains the TCP/IP daemon wrapper
			package.  The `tcp_wrappers' library can be used to
			build a secure version of portmapper, above.

The files within `include' and `libnsl' are derived from corresponding files
within the GNU C Library.  The GNU C Library in turn assimilated these files
from Sun Microsystems' RPCSRC distribution of Sun RPC.  All of the files within
`include' and `libnsl' are freely distributable; some are controlled by the Sun
RPC license and some are controlled by the GNU Library General Public License
(GLPL).  See the `COPYRIGHT' file in the root of the Flick distribution for
details, or refer to the individual source files.

The files within `portmap' are derived from Weitse Venema's enhanced portmapper
distribution, version 4.  (See the `portmap/README' file.)  The files within
`tcp_wrappers' are derived from Weitse Venema's TCP/IP daemon wrapper package,
version 7.6.  (See the `tcp_wrappers/README' file.)  All of the files in the
`portmap' and `tcp_wrappers' directories are freely distributable; some are
controlled by the Sun RPC license and some are controlled by a BSD license.
Again, refer to the `COPYRIGHT' file at the root of the Flick distribution for
details, or see the individual source files.

The `portmap' installation notes (below) contain important details about
portmapper security features under Cygwin.

All of the support files have been tested with Cygwin beta 20.1.

INSTALLATION ------------------------------------------------------------------

If you are using the Flick binary distribution for Cygwin, a `make install'
will install both Flick and the additional support files described above.

If you are using the Flick source distribution, installation of the additional
Cygwin support files is manual but simple:

	include		To install the header files, simply copy the files
			within this directory into GCC's system include
			directory.  The complete pathname of GCC's system
			include directory depends on your installation of
			Cygwin.  You can find your system include directory by
			searching for the file `stdio.h' in your Cygwin
			installation.  The directory that contains `stdio.h' is
			your system header directory.

			BE CAREFUL to preserve the directory hierarchy of the
			files that you copy into your system header directory.
			For instance, the files in the `rpc' subdirectory must
			appear in an `rpc' subdirectory of GCC's system header
			directory, so that they can be included as <rpc/rpc.h>,
			etc.

			ALSO BE CAREFUL not to delete any header files that are
			already installed on your system!

	libnsl		To install the `libnsl' library, you must compile the
			libnsl sources with GCC and then copy `libnsl.a' into
			GCC's system library directory.  The Makefile with
			`libnsl' should be sufficient to compile the library.

			Again, the exact pathname of the system library
			directory varies across Cygwin installations.  You can
			find your system's library directory by searching for
			the file `libc.a'.  The directory that contains
			`libc.a' is your system library directory.

	portmap		You must compile and install the `libnsl' library,
			and compile the `tcp_wrappers' library before you can
			compile the `portmap' daemon.

			To install the `portmap' daemon, you simply compile the
			portmapper sources with GCC and then copy the resultant
			`portmap' program to some directory in your executable
			search path.  A good location might be the `bin'
			directory within your Cygwin tree (e.g., where
			`bash.exe' resides).  The Makefile with `portmap'
			should be sufficient to compile the daemon and support
			programs.

			You may want to install the utility `pmap_dump' and
			`pmap_set' programs in your search path as well.

			Note that you must start the `portmap' daemon on your
			Windows machine before you run any Flick-generated ONC
			RPC (Sun RPC)-based servers.  (ONC RPC servers attempt
			to register themselves with the portmapper.)  To start
			the portmapper daemon, simply run the `portmap'
			program.  Command line options:

				-d	Prevent `portmap' from running as a
					daemon, and cause debugging information
					to be printed to stderr.

				-v	Issue verbose logging access control
					checks.

			The `-d' switch may be required under Windows 95.  We
			have had problems running `portmap' as a daemon under
			Windows 95, but haven't really investigated the issue.

			Note that host-based access control is enabled by
			default, and `portmap' links with the `tcp_wrappers'
			library supplied.  If you prefer to use a different
			wrapper library (or to disable host-based access
			control), you will need to modify the portmapper
			Makefile accordingly.

	tcp_wrappers	You must compile and install the `libnsl' library
			before you can compile the `tcp_wrappers' library.

			Simply compile the `tcp_wrapper' sources with GCC.  The
			Makefile with `tcp_wrappers' should be sufficient to
			compile the library and support programs.

			Note that this is the complete TCP/IP wrapper package,
			and thus will make more than just the `libwrap.a'
			library needed for the `portmap' daemon.

COMPILING FLICK ---------------------------------------------------------------

After you have installed the extra support files into your Cygwin setup, you
should be able to compile and use Flick.  Refer to the Flick user's guide or
the `INSTALL' file for further instructions.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## End of file.

